okay
jody and eli can you hear me okay
yeah loud and clear all right very good
excellent so people who are joining
welcome and uh
make yourself comfortable right and if
this is not a formal webinar
there are a lot of stuff i will be
talking about but in the meantime
while we wait for everybody to join
um why don't you just go grab a cup of
coffee
or a tea or relax a little bit
okay this is just a casual
presentation right so
eva how are you doing
things are okay you know just another
crazy wednesday
is it wednesday
and uh jody
and you yeah it's good today's my dad's
birthday
yay happy birthday to your dad yeah a
cake this morning okay very very good so
are you guys well now is the social
distance things are you guys going out
to eat
at all yeah we're just staying home
ordering in
okay very good so uh for everybody who
just joined
um like i said welcome and
uh it's gonna be a very casual
conversation i have a a very decent
slice to share with
everybody but in the meantime before we
get started please go grab a cup of
coffee
a cup of tea you know and just stick
back
and relax and enjoy all right i actually
have a solid presentation for everybody
so i want to give it another 30 seconds
if that's okay with you
okay and say hi so you can say hi
on chat so we actually have a chat
and also we have a q a you can use
either one of them feel free by the way
but say hi just go ahead and say hi to
everybody if you can that'll be good
okay
and by the way uh eva and uh jodies are
online
i will be presenting but they will be
moderating
and if you have any specific questions
um just enter that into chat or q a
they will um see it and if
the timing is right or if it's
appropriate for my
during my conversation and they will
inject your
uh question otherwise if i don't get a
chance
to uh share or answer your question
don't worry about it i will tell you in
terms of how you can reach out to me and
then we can carry the conversation
forward
okay very good
okay we're gonna get started
am i too loud eva and jody
oh it's good it's good all right great
so for today what i really want to talk
about is how to deliver online
presentation to senior manager like
rockstar and initially when i created
this specific
webinar i was really thinking about how
to deliver
uh presentation in general but now with
the current situation
if you have to deliver online
presentations what are some of the key
points that you should pay attention to
so i change my uh presentation focus
a little bit and try to uh
share some of the tips and tricks from
my perspective that's actually good that
you can actually apply
for um a better and effective
online presentation so let's get started
welcome i invited okay robert downey jr
to welcome you
seriously all right and he's doing a
fantastic job
[Laughter]
well if you are interested actually come
to our next webinar i have another guest
i'm gonna share with you right that she
is fantastic
you'll love her to welcome you in the
meantime my name is pam dinner
and many of you actually attended my
webinar in the past
so welcome back if you are new uh
to uh this webinar or even to me
just want to share with you i wrote
three books global content marketing
effective sales enablement and the
modern ai marketers
i'm a b2b marketer through and through
as you can tell
i'm kind of wearing a boring outfit that
seems to be the sign
of a b2b marketer no offense i love b2b
marketers you guys
very much in the meantime my job is
basically working very closely with the
marketing team
on the digital transformation or even
anything so that's a sales and marketing
alignment
through content marketing account based
marketing or sales enablement
and i usually help my clients through
one-on-one coaching
workshop and training or even help them
to actually take down
any kind of process or even
collaborations consulting projects
okay so quickly about me
and this is our fifth webinar we've been
doing it once
every a month and i created what i call
it think strategic
uh think strategically series starting
with
made in terms of how you can change your
marketing plan again
you know in the midst of colbert 19 and
down to
how do you create your marketing plan
there are several key elements that you
should include
and kill today how to deliver online
presentation to senior managers
managers the next one which is august 6
is really how to sharpen your strategic
thinking skills
and a lot of people already reaching out
to me and say what do you mean by
strategic thinking
well come to my webinars and find out
and you can register
on my website forward slash webinars you
can't miss it
okay so register there and we can
um we can talk more
we are in a process thinking about what
are the specific topics
that i can talk about for september
october
and november so if you have a specific
challenge or specific topic that you
would like me to address
no problem submit that to chat our team
will review that
and we'll determine you know which one
we should go with
so if your minds are thinking and racing
right now
about certain topics that you want me to
talk about i'm not saying i can talk
about
all the topics in digital marketing but
i can touch
good chunk of it a very and also dive
into the know-how
so talk to me and share on chat in terms
of
topics that you want to see and so jody
and evac
if anybody is typing that information
make sure we capture that
and we have internal team discussion
afterwards okay
all right for today online presentation
to your senior managers
there are three things i want to talk
about three
one is content which is a presentation
of itself
second is your communication style
third is the surrounding the view of the
workspace
on webcam which is the frame right
the view of your workspace these are the
three things i want to talk about
content you surrounding
the key out of this whole thing in terms
of presenting to online
uh online presentation to your managers
or senior executive
the bottom line is content is king oh
another thing i want to share with you
before i
i was thinking about to get uh to talk
about before i i started and i forgot
this whole presentation is more tailored
for b2b
marketers and especially if you are
working
in the company that's kind of missiles
growing or enterprises
that means you don't have a personal
relationship
to the senior executive they don't know
you very well
and you don't know them very well and
because of that
what can you do to get yourself noticed
does that make sense
so if you are working in a small company
and you know your senior executives
incredibly well
you probably don't have to follow this
formal presentation type of approach
but however it still can give you some
pointers
how you can do better in terms of your
presentation
so i just want to make sure everybody
understand in terms when i created this
presentation i targeted for b2b
marketers
especially for the growing or mid-sized
and uh a global enterprise that there's
a lot of senior executive
that you have to talk or present to and
what would be the best way to do it
okay content is still the king
and that your presentation
should have three parts or i call it
three acts
the opening the middle and the end
okay so when i say that you're like oh
you know you're talking about the
presentation like storytelling
well yes and no
but that's watch a little movie clip
all right pay attention everyone
so what did you do this week what i
normally do
reading mostly and how many books did
you read
17 and does reading 17 books in one week
seem normal to you
no no of course it's not normal i mean
does skipping three grades of school
seem normal just
going to harvard at the age of 14 seem
normal i'm clearly
not normal i thought we'd establish that
was the problem
harry i want you to do something for me
what you and i are going to come up with
a list of goals you're going to achieve
between now and the end of the year
so for our next session i want you to
think about some of the things you'd
like to have on that list
things you've done in your life and
enjoyed
okay this is the movie
i think was out
in 2016. it's called carrie pelby
of course it's not like a popular movie
like
you know iron man but that whole scene
it's literally the first five minutes
or first three minutes of the movie
right there in the very beginning you
know kerry
is angry is not normal super
intelligent geeky doesn't have life
right through the conversation you got
that clues
right away at the same time another
things that you get
is okay the whole movie is really about
for her to achieve
her list right so she's
that was set in the very beginning you
got a very clear understanding of it
then obviously the whole movie moving
forward
it's about that list that's exactly what
you need to do
for your presentation to senior
executive you need to have a good
opening right the good opening doesn't
mean like
oh my god you need to have a music you
need to have the emoji
none of that it's that clear expectation
upfront what do you want to talk about
and why it's does that make sense
everybody good i cannot hear you
but you can send the feedback on chat
and say good pam
right okay
so set that aside for a second
why do you usually present to senior
managers especially in the mid-sized
growing
or even global enterprises you tend to
present because of the following three
reasons
or the scenario that you have to you
know
deal with the first one is they want to
they want to know some sort of research
findings or some sort of trends
okay because you presented the big
picture
right the manual trends that to shape
the future planning
the other one is you want to pitch ideas
to get some headcounts
to get some budget you want to get some
sort of approval
that's very topic driven the third
is you actually want to provide some
sort of initiative
updates you have a big initiative you
want to migrate
you know from i don't know uh some sort
of
um cim to a sales force for example
it's a big initiative huge investment
for the company
you want to provide certain type of
updates that's
project progress in general i'm not
saying that they are
you know other situations of course they
are but
these are the three very popular reasons
why you present to senior managers
so let's talk each one of them what the
opening
should be okay i show you the movie
clips
let's talk about the opening of these
three scenarios
number one because
you are talking about the research
finding or survey finding
or mega trends for example right
when you do that what do we usually do
when we do presentations
like for example i did the global
customer surveys
for clients the first things i want to
do is
okay let's talk about the bullet point
let's write down a couple of things
all right so you created a slide like
this
then if a senior executives look at that
and say oh my god
so many words really uh it's so hard to
read
i get it so right here i talk about
budget priority
of my customers has changed therefore
i need to focus you know different
product line
that's my finding i talk about hey the
messaging work that we have
usually work for mature countries but
you know what
not so well on the emerging countries
all right by the way 99 of our target
customers can be
english very well okay so it works well
for cross mature
and emerging countries but we still need
to be very strategic
about our content translation oh
another thing i want to go out oh not
good
only 60 of our customers are satisfied
with our call center support oops right
but how to show this piece of how to
show all this information
in a more structured way as an opening
here this is another way
you categorize your information the way
that they understand right senior
executive they think by department
they think by key initiative they think
by
you know um by budget
for example like what is their in their
mind
and how do they categorize the
information
right for this they probably want to
categorize it
when you do this survey what is the
impact on our sales sites
what is impact on marketing what's the
impact on customer services
all of a sudden what i did is i break
down this information right here
which is a bunch of bullet points into a
three categories
so when they are looking this specific
slide from here
these are oh sales oh marketing oh
customer service
okay it's fine good good good now talk
to me more
right so this is what i call a three
colon approach
right three different columns of
information it's very easy for you to
categorize it
and they don't even have to read all the
bullet points they just focus on sales
and marketing customer service
immediately they know all right the
survey findings you're going to talk to
me about
is the impact to sales impact to
marketing impact to customer service
was that helpful that should be the
opening
very clear just like harry potter's
movie
very beginning you know it's going to
work on her list
all right what about topic-centric
right let's talk about the global
customer survey
why do we do a global customer service
that's because
we want to drive a 100 customer
satisfaction
uh initiative right so let's assume
that's your approach
all of a sudden you want to talk about
how do we make that happen
you know over say two or three years
so there's a bunch of team members are
working through this
and you are doing a presentation to your
senior management
right so you want to align them give
them kind of like a little bit of
background
what is the role map what is the org
charts that needs to change
so this is much bigger type of scope
again even with the bigger type of scope
you can
structure it kind of like storytelling
right so right here you want to talk
about approach
how did you get to the recommendation
they need to understand
that because they want like hey have you
thought about that
have you thought about this right so you
want to talk about your approach
to address some of their questions in
the back of their minds
then you talk about your romance then
you talk about your oil charts
recommendation
that's also another opening this one is
more kind of like in
sequential order what have i done
in the past what is the recommendation
right now and
what else needs to be changed okay
so again three column
approach but you focus on different
categories
right so so far so good everybody
good can you just like comment very
quickly
on the chat and say the speed is good
and also um like i'm
doing a good job
[Laughter]
i cannot see your comments anyway so
jody and eva everybody is okay on the
same page
very good it's all clear you're doing
great all right
excellent thank you jody so with that
being said
what is the opening for the project
progress if you want to give everybody a
quick update
what would that look like right
you have to connect the dots right just
like her
you know just like this lady saying i
cannot remember her name
i think she was one of the superheroes
right yeah
thank you thank you love her
all right connect the dots so your first
line
if you are doing any initiative updates
you should start with the top five cobra
initiatives
this is how the senior executive
structure
their thinking right they are thinking
about hey how much money is going to
spend
what kind of pro big projects i'm doing
by department how we doing so they're
always thinking about this type of thing
this type of i'm going to say crap
[Laughter]
oh my god this type of priorities if you
will
so you started with the corporate
imperatives
right what are the key things the
company is working on or your division
if your company is microsoft that's huge
right
but you support a specific business unit
for that specific business unit
what are some of the key initiatives
they have to do for example maybe they
want to ramp
a specific product in certain segments
in certain countries
they want to expand the salesforce.com
to all the sales team worldwide
they want to win additional 50 new
accounts they want
they want to launch this new product
whoa why okay
or they want to redesign and relaunch
the new channel partner program
whatever that is you need to have a clue
right
what is the top cobra initiative because
you are connecting the dots
then let's assume the staff or the
project that you are working on is
related to
a launch product the next things that
you want to show as an opening
is the high level product launch
timeline boom right there
you give senior executive a very a high
level
64 000 fit view all right today
i want to talk about product launch and
this one about corporate initiative
right and now the next slide is let me
show you the timeline
this is what we've been working on in
the past
eight months and this is 12 months
timeline so the executive can get a
sense of it
does that make sense then you dive into
detail
as of today july 22nd what have we do
what have we what have we been doing in
the past seven months
show them the timeline align
their you know their thinking and then
you go into a detail
is that helpful all right
so that's the opening now
let's talk about the middle part
you and i are going to come up with a
list of goals you're going to achieve
between now and the end of the
this a bucket year i did not have the
emotional maturity to deal with the
terminal friendship
we can't accept returns what are you
doing
be free right now engage
and confused you're much more beautiful
than i had expected
fast assignment gary probably finally
completely chant
you and i are going to come up with a
list of goals you're going to achieve
okay so that's the middle part
of carrie pilby's list right so now
spoiler alert three things actually that
more
there are a couple things that she needs
to achieve she needs to make a friend
obviously she doesn't have a friend
pathetic she needs to get a pet because
she doesn't know how to show to love
something or somebody
and then she needs to get on the date
right and blah blah blah
then the whole movie the whole movie
especially the middle part the
juxtaposed
basically the list of the activity
that she needs to do so sometimes she
talk about you know how she make a
friend which is right into a barriers
and then talking about how she got the
pet how the god how
she got the pen and what happened to the
pad blah blah blah
so in the middle part of it if in the
movie set or in the movie storytelling
they will move things around they will
mix things so that you you will follow
the story lines but
the storyline is there it's the list
right make a friend get a path get on a
date it's however you want to do the
creative direction how to move the
things how to do the edit
that's the uh the the secret of telling
a good uh
uh telling a good story but we don't
have to make that
complicated for our presentation
once we know our list the next thing is
we structure
logically and then we tell that list
one by one there's no reasons to
juxtaposed
actually for the senior executive
presentation maybe you can
if you are very very good but if you
structure it in a way
then the next things in the middle part
is much easier to follow because you
have a framework
in place okay now let's talk about the
middle part
remember i talked about the global
customer survey
you created this opening slide right you
get up you tell them give them a little
quick story
and you want to talk about the findings
and you structure the finding in this
way
before you move to the middle right how
does your
first part of the middle look like
right again it's kind of like a peel the
onion type of approach
you structure it now you move it down to
a next level but again
it's about categorizing the information
the way they
understand okay just remember when you
present to senior executive
it's not about what you want to say
oh i want to get budget that's what i
want to say
no it's not about what you want to say
it's really about
what you want to say in the context
of what they understand does that make
sense
you need to say in a way they understand
and they understand is by departments by
initiatives by budget
or probably something else but you need
to understand
what that is so the next things
if i structure it this way the next
thing i want to do is i want to do a
table
kind of like like i said peel the onion
right
so i talk about the customer budget
right outlook they care about this right
away
because the cv manager wants to know if
the customer has a budget to buy our
products
so i basically say oh you know what many
of them said the budget is going to be
flat
okay that's one piece of information
they want to know
and they already they also tell us the
budget will be focused on remote work
infrastructure collaboration and
communication tools
and the secure online cloud workspace
once you said that immediately the
senior executive was said
all right what kind of product can we
sell
right okay feedback our sales team
that's one thing they care
us uh you know is our sales team do very
well
okay at this time you know what many of
people actually like
our sales team right
so but there are a couple things many of
us
many of them complain about our key
product features such as the integration
with salesforce.com is still lacking
okay that's an issue the senior
executive probably
know that but you have to just remind
them again they probably heard this
before but you say
you know what just want to let you know
it's very consistent
without finding in the past right so you
can see
right here from sales marketing and the
customer services i break down even more
i break down to the budget i break down
to the sales
i break down to the marketing it's
messaging content and also call center
once you have this boom your middle is
set
this is your kerry pilby's list then the
next things that you can talk about
it leads to a key survey questions
related to each one of them
and you share the results now you go
into a little bit detail
and then based on that you provide the
recommendation the next steps
right so that's the middle right
again it's about how you structure your
information in the way that they can
relate
for the topic same thing slightly
different remember i talk about
if i'm doing a huge multi-year project
it's very co
complicated and touched on multiple
multiple
uh uh divisions and it's very hard to
put this kind of deck together
i understand done it before i feel your
pain and the frustration again
right here because i structure in the
very beginning
the approach the three year world map
the oycha recommendation then i talk
about a little bit detail
right here the approach collaborate and
build
so i have some keywords that they can
immediately go to
you know we have to we build a strong
collaboration with the sales and
marketing
to complete the survey okay that's good
right we build a robust customer
feedback process for continuous
improvement
okay so out of this approach there's a
couple things we do and here's some
takeaway
all right three years integrate and
expand use a couple of the action verb
to kind of uh identify and crystallize
what are some of the key points that you
want to talk in the middle part
which is the meat of your presentation
workshop recommendation focus monitor
right so right here even though it's
very rewarding
but i have the approach three year road
map
and workshop and i take it down to the
next level collaborate build
integrate expand focus monitor then get
down to another level
does that make sense then from here
because you structure this way
then the middle part comes whole lot
easier
then there's a couple things i want to
talk about because
i talk about approach and a three-year
roma and workshop recommendation right
on the approach this is what my
beginning of my middle part
i talk about hey we took a very holistic
approach right very holistic
in terms of covering all the missing
pieces
and tie everything together with the
external research
we do internal analysis external
internal right we did a trend analysis
we did competitive analysis
the industry trends best practice we
checked them out
on the internal analysis we talked to a
different internal stakeholders
we look at our annual plans we look at
our current process
we cover all the pieces but you don't
have to go into detail this
holistic approach doesn't need to be
like 20 slides
you should do in three slides or four
slides and basically say we cover
everything
then you just point out a couple key
points then you move on
to the recommendation because that's
what they care about the most
which is the three-year road map right
here right
all right then you're like pam oh
three year road map that's hard i know
but how do you structure that in a way
that your senior executives can
understand
i do this
i have come to realize and this is like
after multiple
kind of like a trial era with the
managers
who is my senior manager when i want to
show a three-year-old man
i really want to show three year roma
okay
so i was looking to you know for 2020
what are we doing is there's a theme
related to that
for a pilot okay for 2021 if there's a
theme related to that
and for 2020 uh 2022
is that their theme so you identify a
specific thing at a very strategic level
for every single year and then if you
are working with marketing sales ito
customer services
to do this uh you know to launch this
specific initiative
what are some of the key milestones that
you can put it right here
and it's not detailed
but get is not too high level does that
make sense
so when i'm looking at three-year world
map i tend to do it this way
and it has to work fairly well
it is then this is also a way to drive a
good conversation
with your executive they will look at
this and they will start asking
questions
right and then you have that come very
meaningful conversation back and forth
so that is the template project progress
all right that's another thing i want to
share with you okay
obviously we talked about you started
with the slide
to align everybody and say hey the stuff
i'm working on is very important to you
senior executive because it's one of
your corporate initiatives
all right so you iden you put that as a
reminder
then you come here identify which one
you are working on
remember i told you about the timeline
yeah then the middle part
is easier because you can do a cut off
as of today july 22nd the cutoff
is at the end of july right once you do
that cut off
then you have an option then you have
option to talk about
the past present and the future
so when you do any updates you need to
think
the past present and the future
and how do you do that you can talk
about it
you know by months every single month
what have we accomplished
or you can talk about it by specific
milestones
what are some of the milestones and what
are the highlights and low lights of
those milestones
right it comes to or you can talk about
it by departments
marketing has been doing this blah blah
blah blah sales has been doing this blah
blah blah blah
you know product team has been doing
this blah blah blah blah right all of a
sudden you structure the information
in the middle part of your presentation
by departments which that works too
or you can talk about by budget
so once you structure the information
then you categorize it in the way that
they can
understand does that make sense there
are many ways
you can talk about say a project
updates okay
cool now let's talk about the end
right so there's another movie i wanted
to watch
i just came to let you know that my dad
and i made up
i'm very glad
and then okay he helped me
to get this back
franny and zoe
and as we often say in my profession
how did that make you feel like maybe i
should finish that silly
or not so silly list
that i threw in your general direction
oh i was hoping you'd say that
you saved it just in case i have a
photographic memory remember
thank you
so what are you going to do about mrs
rubin i don't know
contrary to what the degrees on the wall
may imply
i don't have all the answers i wouldn't
trust anyone who thought that they did
maybe you need to make her a list five
ways to leave a husband
you know subtitle
thanks i'll take that as a compliment
compliment intended
you are allowed to be happy carrie you
know that don't you
[Music]
your mom would want that for you
all right it's so nice
anyway um one thing i want to share with
you
okay um when i was thinking about doing
this presentation
and uh i was thinking okay how do i do
that all of you can understand and the
way
i feel that i can do it is actually
through probably
a couple of movie clips so i pick
there i went through probably 10 movies
to be honest
and i want to see which one actually can
tell that the story of the opening
with middle and the end this is probably
not the best film
but it's the best way to show you in
terms of
the opening the middle and also the end
by the way that's not spoiler alert
that's like literally you know after
that
clip there's another 15 minutes of the
movie to the end
okay so don't feel like hey pam
seriously i want to watch that film
no that's not the end of it but you kind
of know that you know
she's waiting on the list and there's a
couple things that she still need to do
and i want to share with you when i was
looking at that movie i was like oh my
god this is a movie
right and how do i cut it in three clips
that um i can share with you because i
don't want to show the whole movie and
the plus movie is
uh tend to be ip protected and how can i
download that
and also trim them so i talked to my
video editor and you should know him if
you are looking to find somebody to edit
your video
his name is scott scorecroft and the sky
if you're online say hi to everybody
and he found a way to actually download
this movie from netflix
and then cut it into these three
versions
for me so i want to say thank you
scott really appreciate your help so
i show you the ending what what about
you are ending
okay for your presentation
your ending you should think about the
ending is what do
you want your management do that's your
ending
your aim is what do you want them to do
right
in general you want them to do a couple
things you're like
hey can you help me right is help needed
that's because you want budget or
account you want to ask for approval
you want the decision for your
recommendation
right so your ending if that's if you
are asking for something you need to
start
working on that literally at the end of
the middle part
all right down to the end when you start
gently
nudge them to the point that they can
make a decision for you
right the other one is you are not
asking for them
for any help then you should come in the
situation
you should tell them what you are going
to do you are not asking for approval
you are not asking for permission
you basically said guess what i'm going
to tell you this is what i'm going to do
all right you set that expectation for
the next phase
you also do a follow-up and say we're
gonna have a meeting
you know in three months and these are
the things i would do
and i will come back and do a report out
right
so the ending is really about
what do you want your management
do then you structure your presentation
logically based on what your senior
senior managers care about right this is
what i've been talking about
in the past 25 30 minutes
so you break down based on the
categories you can define
and you focus on the insight they care
about what do they usually care about
they care about profit they care about
budget they care about market segment
share they care about time to market
they care about customer retention they
care about risks
right it's either revenue cost or risk
talk from these perspectives
all right jody can you start the poll
and i have one question to ask everyone
how many slides do you think
that you should create
jody can you stop the polling
yep i asked the question in the chat so
we're waiting for responses
oh no so sorry sorry i actually can
launch this
okay guys a launch poll oh
can you see it everybody all right
great okay i'm gonna end the poll
all right so if you can see my can
everybody see my slides and change the
poll
jody can you see it eva great
so most of the people uh basically say
six to ten
eleven to fifteen and some of
need them say that again i can't see the
poll results only you can oh
all right now let's do that again can
you do it
can you see it sure do i share the
results okay
there we go now i can see there they are
all right thank you everyone for helping
me
all right if you can see the sharing
poll results a good uh
a lot of people say about 6 to 10 or 11
to 15.
and in general um unless this is a huge
huge project that you are working on you
usually get about 30 minutes
or 60 minutes of the senior executive's
time
if you do 30 minutes 6 to 10 is about
right
if you have about uh 60 minutes
i'm sorry if you have 30 minutes six to
10 slices about right
if you have 60 minutes i would say 11 to
20.
it really depends on your management
style um
some are very very detail driven then
you probably have to provide a whole lot
more information
some of them prefer conversation then
you keep it high level
so now it comes to internship management
style and i will touch
a little bit about that okay but
you know what everybody's the answer to
some extent is right there's no right or
wrong answer about this
okay the next question i want to share
one second uh
i'm gonna close this
is how should you manage q a
so now you are doing the presentation
how should you manage
the q a uh i have the second poll
questions
uh jody do you want to start or should i
i can't do it on my end you can
yeah god damn it sorry
[Laughter]
[Music]
i cannot find
oh shoot okay got it calling
all right pam come on get this to work
ah i have a hard time kick clicking
apologize
and you cannot do the oh
shoot what a second everyone i apologize
i cannot get my uh mouse to click on
poles can you believe it
where you go pam oh god
okay
um i'll skip that one
sorry so the next poll is really
um how do you manage the q a
should you manage the q a in the middle
at the end
or throughout the presentation in
general
uh it really depends on your style
okay if you are type of person want to
be incredibly focused
and you want to focus on your
presentation the whole time you can tell
you know you can basically save the q a
section at the end
however senior executives don't usually
listen to us
okay they want to ask questions they ask
questions
so my take on this is you don't really
have a total control of
how the q a is managed when you present
it to say ceo
c-suite or the vp level they're going to
ask questions they're more command
of your presentation than you are doing
it
therefore when they ask questions if it
takes a long time but here's the trick
if they ask any questions that you are
going to cover
to a later slide you can tell them hold
on you thought i'll cover that in the
later slides
you don't have to like really answer the
question on the spot
second if you are truly and if you are
like
it's a 30 minute presentation you're
only going two slides and everybody's
talking
you need to take control of the
situation and basically say i only have
15 minutes left
and i have five slides i want to talk
about can we hold on to that thought i
will definitely cover some of it but i
want to go through my presentation
you can interrupt them and tell them
that you can
unless they can say no we want to talk
about this
then let it be but make an effort to
take back
or take control of your presentation
does that make sense
so you know in terms of managing q a it
is kind of like the arts and science
and that you have to make a judgment
call especially you have to look at the
time
how much time you have left can then
determine
all right obviously another thing is you
need to know your senior managers well
you know in terms of what kind of
questions they will ask you need to
anticipate
right also attention span they are take
majority of the executives i have to
deal with
they have attention span of goldfish i
love them dearly
but you know what the attention span is
very very short
because there are so many things they
have to do they have to consider
they have to give advice so the
attention span
short is given right so that's why your
opening
is very critical how do you set a stage
into the middle because by the time you
get to
the middle well it's mine probably
somewhere else already
so your opening is very critical and
also high level versus details
i have encountered some managers are
very high level
you know some of them are very detailed
they want to see everything
so you need to understand your style
another key point is
have data to substantiate your claim or
your your claims or your point of view
right so if you said you need five head
count why
you know do you have data to support it
what kind of analysis have you done do
you have a third party
uh reference points right and the other
one is the view of your projects
do they like your project
oh this project has been like you know
really draining
the company resources for five years
so get a sense sometimes you just don't
like your project
be honest with yourself about that too
that will guide you in terms of how you
want to present
right and uh but sometimes if this
project is very important to
them they are very passionate about then
the way that you present that
information will may be a little bit
different
so their view of your projects
initiative get a sense of that
and uh use the following whenever
possible you know this is nothing new
it's a friendly reminder use a visual
use a graph use the chart
right for example we tend to do this
senior manager care about revenue cost
and risk
but again can you do it like that
c-suites care about
this this and this have a little bit of
icon
have some of the key points right so
this
versus this again right here
we are on track and you want to talk
about six bullet points
don't do that can you do it this from
good to great right so your type so your
your your title should be uh um
something that can capture their
attention and then the six bullet points
i break it down to collaborate build
integrate enhance focus and optimize
right so this is another way to present
it that's much easier for them to
comprehend
the visuals depends on what you want to
communicate
for example you know we want to increase
the market share of
our product all right we made that
change
we want to uh you know break even
at a certain point well yeah at this
time we broke even
we want to increase the revenue of this
specific product and we are showing
increase
uh the the the incremental increase over
time
so visual is critical uh to show
especially in terms of
trending for more questions
i know you have more questions please
you can join my facebook community
go to facebook.com and you can type
build your marketing skills to get ahead
and that's my community and very very
uh small community right i am not
promoting it big time
so it's usually organic if you are
thinking about building your marketing
skills soft skills and hard skills
and this is the community and you can
also come to this community to download
the templates
the templates i'm sharing with you today
you can download it in units
so go to units and actually download the
templates
all right and you can post any questions
i answer every single one of them
and what if someone doesn't have a
facebook and they're looking for
the slides or templates send me an email
hello at pamdina.com and i will send it
to you
great question jody thank you for
injecting and sharing that
so if you don't have a facebook by the
way if you don't have facebook
i respect that i do
facebook is okay that's a totally
different perspective i want to talk
about it
if you don't have it i totally respect
that and good for you
and send me an email i'll follow up
if you do join the facebook community
and go to announcements tab
and i have a gift card right there get
yourself a tote starbucks
it's on me all right and if you do that
take a photo
share with me
i also have a youtube channel right i
haven't done many videos in the past
several
uh weeks but there are some stuff you
can check it out
um i usually talk about uh b2b uh
stuff and unfortunately all my peeps my
b2b
peeps they don't usually go to the
youtube channel to look for information
and i totally understand that they like
to read you know
and uh but i really try to create a
youtube channel and try to understand
this channel and how to do a better job
of it
right your personal communication style
right
you cannot change okay you can only
refine your style
improve your style we are who we are i'm
not here to ask you to change so
just be yourself be comfortable and be
confident when you present
like what i'm doing right now right just
be yourself
the only way that you can be yourself
and be confident
is you prepare practice prepare practice
prepare practice
there's not much to it seriously
that is the only lesson i can share with
you
if you want to do a good job in front of
your senior manager
get a good deck prepare practice prepare
and practice
there's not there's not much to it okay
but be yourself
the next element is the frame
the view of your workspace right
so that's my workspace
okay this is how i usually work but
when i present as you can see when i
present i move
i added i elevated my desktop right so
you don't have to see the ceiling
you see the background on top of it on
top of it guys
i also have the ring light so i look
good
so that's kind of important to actually
have the
lighting like kind of shine on you so
your face is not dark
does that make sense so i actually have
two lighting that shine on me so you can
see
do i look good
all right you probably think pam is
crazy yes i know
you look gorgeous thank you jody love
you
the view from your webcam okay should
you do audio video
definitely video okay don't feel like oh
i'm not
i just i don't want to i'm not
comfortable in front of video well get
yourself comfortable
so if you have choice audio versus
webcam always do what can
stand up or sit sit down i'm standing up
that's totally up to you but if you
think about it if you do face-to-face
communication and presentation in the
conference
in front of your senior managers what do
you do you stand up
so stand up living matters i talk about
it
real background versus virtual
background that's totally up to you
right if you if you if your house is
messy
well then use some virtual background
that's totally okay
it's totally up to you headset versus no
headset
in general headset is better in terms of
sound quality
okay here's uh the two
kind of popular selfie ring light which
is what i show you right here
guys and i found this one pretty nice
it's not
expensive i'm not affiliated with them
the other one is basically the
portable and you can find a clip that
can clip into your pc
on the top of your laptop and then it's
continuous portable photography lighting
but man this lighting right here
is so strong it hurts my eyes
so um personally i don't like it i
bought it
and i didn't like it that much but you
should try both of them and see what you
prefer
so the key elements really three
your presentation your personal
communication style
the frame okay or the view of your work
uh space
on webcam the bottom line is focus on
what you can control
these are the three things that you can
control then do a good job
and define a way to control that the
rest of it
that'd be just let it be you cannot
control the dog blocking
in your executive's house you cannot
control the baby crying
in their houses you cannot control their
wi-fi not working
you can focus on what you can control
and do a great job
on that all right again you can download
the templates
right and post any questions on the
facebook community if you don't
reach out to me on email hello
pamplinder.com
or any social media channels please
and what can i do for you i do quite a
bit of speaking now i do speaking online
i do keynote workshop and training so if
you are training
uh your sales and the marketing
organization in terms of specific
marketing topics
or even training on collaboration and
communication
talk to me and i also do a lot of
mentoring and coaching
um the season or aspiring marketing
professionals
in terms of how to move your career up
and also how to gain knowledge
on different marketing disciplines
consulting i take down consulting
projects
content marketing sales enablement
account based marketing
my tech planning and the implementation
and also sales and marketing alignment
right so there's another question i want
to ask
unfortunately i cannot get it to work
but don't worry about it the thing
i want to share with everybody is uh
two before i uh um
end uh this webinar another one i have
another webinar coming up on august how
to sharpen your strategic thinking
skills
that's a wrap up of my strategic
thinking
series okay so that's the last one
and i our teams are thinking about in
terms of
what the topics we want to i want uh to
address and share in september october
and november
if you have a specific topic please send
it to me
we would like to take that into account
and we will make a decision within two
weeks
so we usually i usually try to make a
decision in terms of the next three
months
what are some of the key topic and
webinar i will talk
okay so share with me if you have a
specific topic if i cannot talk about
that topic i will tell you
and if this is something that's
interesting and uh
i'm more than happy to do my research
and take it from there
all right any other questions jody from
your perspective that you can see on
chad or the q a
no questions that i can't answer
okay very good so everybody i got
one minute to go so i want to say see
you at my facebook community
and the next webinar right
thanks a lot bye-bye thank you pam